---
title: SOC Alpha 1
date: 2024-04-16
categories: [Write-Ups, BTLO, Investigations]
tags: [BTLO]
---
## Scenario

You are a SOC analyst and handling the alerts within your SIEM, ELK, is part of daily duties. Answer the following questions by analysing the alerts provided in README.txt!

`ELK`{:.info} `Log Analysis`{:.info} `Network Analysis`{:.info} `T1569.002`{:.error} 

## Investigation Submission

### 1) Alert 1 (1/2) - What is the cmdlet used for downloading?

Open kibana dashboard, go to discover and investigate for winevt-powershell logs.

Looking for cmdlet used to download file in the window time indicated in README.txt file.

I filtered for **Event_EventData_Data_#text{} : is one of Invoke, Download** as suggested in README.txt file. 
Or you can copy and paste in KQL bar the following rule: `"*.DownloadFile*" OR "*.DownloadString*" OR "*Invoke-WebRequest*"`

> **Invoke-WebRequest**

### 2) Alert 1 (2/2) - What is the full URL from which the file is downloaded?

It is written in the same log.

> **https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nerrorsec/SBT-SOC/main/MSWorker.exe**

### 3) Alert 2 (1/1) - What is the name of the suspicious EXE that is added for Persistence?

README.txt file contains all useful information to answer this question.

> **MSworker.exe**

### 4) Alert 3 (1/2) - What is the name of the suspicious executable file involved?

Be careful to time!

> **service.exe**

### 5) Alert 3 (2/2) - What is the name of the key path?

The complete key is `HKU\S-1-5-21-2979773156-725440210-495427616-1001\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Run\Service"`.

> **Service**

### 6) **Alert 4 (1/2) - What is the name of the task?**

Copy and paste the following rule from README.txt file: `Event_EventData_Image:*schtasks.exe* AND Event_EventData_CommandLine:*Create*`

> **My Task**
### 7) Alert 4 (2/2) - What is the full path of the program?

> **C:\\Program Files\\GameLoaderGen\\gen.bat**
